= Flipped - The flip-book tool

Project:: {Spooner/Flipped}[http://github.com/Spooner/flipped] (at github)
Author:: Bil Bas (aka Spooner) bil dot bagpuss at gmail dot com
License:: GPL v3

== Description

A gui-based tool for the game, {Sleep is Death}[http://sleepisdeath.net], aiming at improving the viewing, and enabling
simple editing of, flip-book folders.

* {Wiki}[http://wiki.github.com/Spooner/flipped/] (including screenshots).

== Features

=== Viewing

* View individual frames, with thumbnails for easy navigation.
* Start/previous/next/end navigation.
* Play/pause flip-books.

=== Editing

* Merge existing flip-books (makes playing games with breaks/pauses a lot more manageable, believe me!).
* Delete frames (individual, by range or all identical).
* Save edited flip-book in format identical to that created by the game. This also allows the re-creation of flip-books
  with new formats, by altering your templates folder.

== Installation

Installation has been tested on Windows 7 x64 and Kubuntu 10.04 x64. It should also be possible on OS X, but this has
not been tested.

=== Using binary (Windows only)

1. Get the latest release from {github}[http://github.com/Spooner/flipped/downloads].

2. Unpack the archive somewhere, for example into a directory inside your Sleep Is Death folder.

3. Click on 'flipped/bin/flipped.exe'.

The executable takes a few seconds longer to load than the source code, but does not have any dependencies on having the
correct Ruby interpreter or libraries installed. There is also a bug in that the application crashes after it has exited
(but other that throwing up an error window, it works completely correctly). For these reasons, it is strongly recommended
that you try to run from the sources if you can manage it.

=== Using source-code (Any system, including Windows)

This should work on any system, but requires a bit of setup.

==== 1. Install Ruby

The application was created and tested using Ruby 1.9.1. It is only guaranteed to work with that or a later version of
Ruby.

===== Windows

I recommend installing the 1.9.1 installer, found here: http://rubyinstaller.org/download.html (you require
"Ruby 1.9.1-p378 (RC2)" or later)

===== Linux

Install Ruby and the FOX gui toolkit (instructions specifically for Ubuntu/Debian):

    sudo apt-get install ruby1.9.1-full libfox-1.6-dev

(or just run 'flipped/install_ruby.sh')

===== Mac

The application hasn't been tested on a Mac, but should work. Please follow the instructions for
{installing Ruby on OS X}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/]. You may also need to install the FOX toolkit before
you can install the {FOX Toolkit}[http://www.fox-toolkit.org/] to allow FXRuby to be installed in the next stage.
If you manage to run on a Mac and can explain the steps required, or have problems, then please contact the author
(see email address above).

==== 2. Install required libraries

After installing Ruby, you must install a few required libraries (specifically FXRuby and i18n).
This will take a minute or two to automatically download and install the libraries.

===== Windows

Click on 'flipped/install_libraries.bat'.

===== Linux

Open a command window and type:

    sudo gem1.9.1 install fxruby i18n --no-ri --no-rdoc

(or just run 'flipped/install_libraries.sh')

==== 3 Get the source code for Flipped

Choose one of:

a. Get the latest stable release from {github}[http://github.com/Spooner/flipped/downloads] (recommended).

b. Using git (if you don't know what git is, just get the latest snapshot, below):

       git://github.com/Spooner/flipped.git

c. Download latest git snapshot {zip/tar package}[http://github.com/Spooner/flipped/archives/master].

It is probably easiest to put Flipped in a directory inside SleepIsDeath, but it doesn't matter where it is.
 
==== 4. Run application

===== Windows

Click on 'flipped/lib/flipped.rbw' to start the application. If it doesn't start up properly, double check
that you have performed step #1 and #2, above.

===== Linux

Just clicking on the application probably won't work unless you've manually set up some aliases and paths. However,
this should work regardless:

  ruby1.9.1 ./flipped/lib/flipped.rbw

== Classes

Flipped::Book manages the flipbook data and could be used as a library for making other tools, since it is not
coupled to the interface in any way.

Flipped::Gui, which creates an interface for the Book class, manages the actual tool, allowing the user to
both more effectively view flipbooks and enabling simple editing of flipbooks.

Flipped::SettingsManager manages settings and key bindings.

Flipped::OptionsDialog is a dialog specifically for setting options that are not set elsewhere.

== License

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Full text of the license is provided in COPYING.txt

== Credits

* Thanks to SiliconEidolon and ubik for testing and feedback.
* Thanks to {SiDtube}[http://sidtube.com] for providing a marvellous community site for SiD players.
* Thanks to {github}[http://github.com] for hosting my project.

* {FXRuby}[http://fxruby.org] library by Lyle Johnson, based on the FOX Toolkit by Jeroen van der Zijp.
* {Ocra}[http://ocra.rubyforge.org/], used to create the standalone Windows executable.
* Default templates directory, taken from {SleepIsDeath}[(http://sleepisdeath.net] v14c, by Jason Rohrer.
* {RubyMine}[http://www.jetbrains.com/ruby/] Ruby IDE was used to develop the application. Enormous thanks to JetBrains
  for generously giving me a license for their excellent IDE in order to develop free, open-source applications.
